# Simple-Language-Compiler

This is a repository for the Languages and Compilers project.

Any files related to the project will be stored here and every update will be committed here.
## Contributors:

* Youssef Ehab (@JoeEhab12)
* Ahmed Abdel Hamid (@Ahmed-A-Mahmoud)
* Abdelrahman El-Afandy (@cereal69)
* Mahmoud Wahba

## Dependencies:

gtk +3.0 linux library for GUI 
you can download it from here for Windows/Linux : https://www.gtk.org/download/

## Execution Guidelines:

This is how to run the program on Ubuntu:

1. Compile the lex file using this command ```$ lex compiler.l ```
2. Compile the yacc file using this command ```$ yacc compiler.y ```
3. Compile the C files generated by lex and yacc using this command ```$ gcc 'pkg-config --cflags gtk+-3.0' lex.yy.c y.tab.c -o compiler 'pkg-config --libs gtk+-3.0'```
4. Now you're good to go by running ```$ ./compiler```

## Milestone 1:

- [ ] Design a suitable programming language; you may use a mini version of an
	existing one. The important constructs to be considered are:  
    - [x] Variables and Constants declaration.
    - [x] Mathematical and logical expressions.
    - [x] Assignment statement.
    - [x] If-then-else statement, while loops, repeat-until loops, for loops, switch
    statement.
    - [x] Block structure (nested scopes where variables may be declared at the
    beginning of blocks).
    - [ ] \(optional) Functions.

## Milestone 2:

- [x] Implement the lexical analyzer using Lex.

## Milestone 3:

- [ ] Design suitable action rules to produce the output quadruples and implement
	your parser using YACC.

## Milestone 4:
- [ ] Build a simple semantic analyzer to check for the following:
 - [ ] Variable declaration conflicts. i.e. multiple declaration off the same
			 variable.
 - [ ] Improper usage of variables with regard to their type.
 - [ ] \(optional) The addition of type conversion quadruples to coupe with
			 operators semantic requirements, i.e. converting integer to real, etc.
 - [ ] Variables used before being initialized and unused variables.
		
## Milestone 5:

- [ ] Implement a simple GUI.
